README.md, before:

# Scalable Understanding of Datasets and Models with the Help of Large Language Models

I will make a video tutorial on this topic; stay tuned. This is the library and notebooks to help the audience understand my tutorial. 

### Installation

I recommend creating a conda environment with python >= 3.9 to use this package.

1. Run ```pip install -e .``` to install this package.
2. Set up your openai key in your environment. i.e. ```export OPENAI_API_KEY="[Your OPENAI API KEY]"```

### Usage

This repo supports the bare bone implementation for explaining dataset differences and clusters. 

See the notebooks, ```llm_explain/tests/test_cluster.py```, and ```llm_explain/tests/test_diff.py``` to understand how to use the functions implemented in this repo. 

If you want to build on it, refer to other test files to understand the rest of the repo. 

### Notebooks 

The notebooks illustrate the following sections in the video tutorial.
- 1.1 Core method: the proposer-validator framework
- 1.1 Extension 1: precise explanations.
- 1.1 Extension 2: goal-constrained explanations.
- 1.1 Extension 3: multiple explanations
- 1.2: Explainable clustering

### Related works

```references.pdf``` contains the related works mentioned in our presentation.

Commit message:

adding quick examples to readme, refactored test a little

README.md, after:

# Scalable Understanding of Datasets and Models with the Help of Large Language Models

I will make a video tutorial on this topic; stay tuned. This is the library and notebooks to help the audience understand my tutorial. 

### Installation

I recommend creating a conda environment with python >= 3.9 to use this package.

1. Run ```pip install -e .``` to install this package.
2. Set up your openai key in your environment. i.e. ```export OPENAI_API_KEY="[Your OPENAI API KEY]"```

### Usage

This repo supports the bare bone implementation for explaining dataset differences and clusters. 

See the notebooks, ```llm_explain/tests/test_cluster.py```, and ```llm_explain/tests/test_diff.py``` to understand how to use the functions implemented in this repo. 

If you want to build on it, refer to other test files to understand the rest of the repo. 

### A quick example after installation

run python: 
```
>>> from llm_explain.models.diff import explain_diff                                                                                                                            >>> >>> >>> explain_diff(["cat", "dog", "fish", "carrot", "potato", "apple"], [False, False, False, True, True, True], proposer_num_rounds=2, proposer_num_explanations_per_round=2)
```

You will get outputs similar to the following in fewer than 30 seconds:

```
Printing top 3 explanations:
Explanation: refers to a plant-based item; specifically, the text mentions items that grow from plants, including vegetables and fruits. For example, 'carrot' is a type of root vegetable.
Accuracy: 1.0

Explanation: is a type of food; specifically, the text refers to items commonly recognized as food, typically vegetables or fruits. For example, 'apple' is known to be a fruit consumed as food.
Accuracy: 0.8333333333333333

Explanation: mentions a type of food; specifically, the text refers to something that is commonly eaten by humans. For example, 'This apple is very juicy.'
Accuracy: 0.8333333333333333
```


### Notebooks 

The notebooks illustrate the following sections in the video tutorial.
- 1.1 Core method: the proposer-validator framework
- 1.1 Extension 1: precise explanations.
- 1.1 Extension 2: goal-constrained explanations.
- 1.1 Extension 3: multiple explanations
- 1.2: Explainable clustering

### Related works

```references.pdf``` contains the related works mentioned in our presentation.
